The future and scope of forensic science 
Akshat Bhardwaj

“We can all see, but can you observe?” a quote by AD Garret from the psychological thriller novel “Everyone lies” and the answer is a big “yes” for someone in the field of forensics. 
Forensic science, the application of the methods of the natural and physical sciences to matters of criminal and civil law. Some prefer going to the crime scene others prefer a laboratory role. Forensic scientists can also testify as expert witnesses in the court of law either for prosecution or in defense in a criminal or civil case. There are many different sub divisions in forensics like, art forensics, bloodstain spatter analysis, digital forensics and forensic chemistry. 
The scope in the field of forensics is vast as people can get jobs in government and private sectors. Due to increase in crime rate the scope of forensic science has increased greatly. For added benefit medical students do get an edge when studying for forensic science. Forensic science is a combination of various of distinct branches like biology, chemistry and physics. A trained forensic scientist maybe hired by the Central Bureau of Investigation and Intelligence Bureau. You can also work as a legal counselor after gaining experience as a forensic scientist. Teaching is also an interesting choice for a forensic scientist by working for an institution which provides education in forensic science.
Some of the top recruiters in the field of Forensic science are Intelligence Bureau, Central Bureau of Investigation, Central Govt. Forensic Sciences Labs, Hospitals, Private Detective Agencies, Police Department, Law Firms, Universities.
With the rapidly developing technology and innovations forensic science has had many major upgrades such as DNA phenotyping which helps in predicting an organism's observable physical or biological characteristics using only genetic information collected from genotyping or DNA sequencing. This has changed processing of information from a crime scene much more effective.
There are many jobs which can help people do some good in the world and forensic science is one of them.

